Continuing on our tour of definitions
before we build some stuff.
And I'm just going to
be talking at you for
the next 45 minutes or so, ask questions.
Cuz I don't want this to be my
dissertation about all the problems.
We get into stuff.
We'll just have fun from here on out.
Okay, so
next kind of interesting situation.
So actually,
I'm just gonna go copy this boilerplate.
All right, so
we have this function httpGet,
and you can pretend it's
actually going to do stuff.
We're just gonna stub it out with task.of.
Fun story, if you use id.of,
you can actually see things, and
you can stub out the exact same interface,
and you don't have to worry about it
being kind of opaque like a task.
It's kinda cool.
But what's gonna happen here is we wanna
call getUser, getTimeline and getAds.
We wanna hit all of those.
And in promises,
you have Promise.all to do that.
You could say get the user,
get the timeline, get out whatever.
And what you'd end up with is an array of
a promise of an array of results, right?
Result, result, but without promise.of,
we were in a map over this.
And we get each function, and we run it.
We end up with an array of promise1,
promise2, promise3, and
they wouldn't be the results.
So effectively, you have a promise on
the inside, an array on the outside.
And we want a promise on the outside,
and an array on the inside.
See that kind of distinction?
We've got an array of promises,
instead of a promise of an array.
And in the way you'd write
this in a type is I have
the type of this thing is
an array of promise, right?
So we wanna flip that into
a promise of an array.
Promise holding whatever string
we have here in this [INAUDIBLE].
All right, so promise.all does that for
us, but in a very specific way.
We're gonna take a step to make it
more general to work on any two types
that are capable of
commuting flipping around.
So if I have the situation right
here with tasks in a list,
the same thing I wanna task of results,
not a list of tasks right?
And that that interface
is called traversable.
We're able to traverse the types,
kind of leapfrog them, flip them around.
So we're gonna call it traverse,
instead of map.
And traverse takes two arguments.
The first one is point.
What are we talking about?
What are we gonna have on the outside?
It's largely ignored.
But in the case of errors where it
never actually runs the function left,
you still need to know what
type you're gonna put it in.
So you have to provide it.
Type systems can do this for you.
So if you go to something like Haskell or
pure scripts,
you don't actually have to provide that,
cuz it knows the types.
But here, you do.
So what's gonna happen here is this
doesn't have a traverse method.
It's a list.
It's a array built in.
So I brought in my library,
which defines traverse.
And this is, how do I say this?
This is a pervasive.
This function exists amongst
all these functional languages.
It's not just like my library.
This is just one one way to implement it.
And I did that so we could have
something with the class, but
you'll see this around.
In Swift, you'll see this function
right off the bat, right?
And what we get here now
is we run all these.
We'll just fork console.log, console.log.
We should have a freaking
mutable JS [LAUGH] x.toJS, cool.
And so we have an array of results.
So it's effectively a task over a list
of results, instead of a list of tasks.
Let's do the same thing, something else.
>> On the list, and kind of promise.all,
the JavaScript promise.all,
if there's a single failure in the array,
the entire thing fails.
Is that correct?
So are we avoiding that
behavior in immutable JS?
>> I think it would cancel it out.
Interestingly though,
concat can get you around that.
>> Yes.
>> With monoids and alternatives.
But yeah, this is just basically
promise.all for now, yeah,
we'll hit this one.
Yeah, thanks for mentioning that.
So here, we have this example.
Let's look at a different type.
I'm just gonna copy all these out
from my previous doodle links.
Okay, let's get rid of this stuff.
And here,
we have a very similar situation.
Again, we have a list of eaters.
We're gonna do is say I wanna
take a value, this email,
blot@yahoo.com is my email address,
don't exploit it.
And then I want you to run
each of these on there.
And what we'll end up with is
just this array of ethers.
Either either, and
we want an either array results.
Now, I've used array in
both of these examples, but
it's not exclusives to array.
We could do this with box and Either.
Unfortunately, you can't
take a nested task.
You can't start with tasks on the outside,
and put something outside of it.
It's not traversable, it doesn't implement
that interface, it's impossible.
So I can't show you that with task.
But by and large, this is a generic
interface for flipping two types around.
I have a disk type inside of that type,
I want that one on the outside.
I just happen to be using list
on both of these examples.
So what we'll do here is we'll use list,
and
we'll switch map to traverse,
do either .of,
double r, sorry, I'm fine,
it's okay [LAUGH].
And then we'll res.fold, or yeah,
fold console.log, console.log.
All right, and again, and [LAUGH]
shouldn't be deleting these things.
There you go.
And you see the result twice,
cuz that's what I'm doing,
I'm saying just return it back.
This is a common pattern in something like
validation libraries, where you say well,
return the result or the error,
cuz the error is gonna short circuit, or
concat with each other,
combine, or whatever.
And so
if it comes back with a bunch of results,
just take one, cuz it's the actual thing.
Otherwise, it'll just blow up in a nice,
clean, mathematical way.
One thing I was gonna say is, yeah,
if I break this, you go, not an email.
It has to be greater than 5.
Let's pick that one.
Well, that's great.
There you go.
So both, no,
not both [LAUGH] now using monoids.
Yeah, we didn't talk about monoids.
We're gonna be talking about monoids
in the functional architecture course.
The point being that
this flips types around.
And that's something that's useful.
You'll end up with situations like, let's
just do this with just some fun types.
I have an either of three, right?
Or I have an either of a list of four.
[LAUGH] and from there,
I wanna do something where I chain this.
And I take this list in, and
then I get another either here
of three again, or something.
And what we'll get is this either list,
either thing.
And what I can do here
is if I put this type
outside of the list,
I can squash them down.
Right, I would end up with
an either of an either of a list.
And now I can flatten to
just an either of a list.
They cannot flatten that, but
they can flatten two in the row.
This is getting really intense.
This is much more like advanced material,
where you're starting to nest these
things, and deal with collapsing them,
and flattening them.
So you have a nice, but
you're being honest in your program.
You're saying this could blow up,
so you have to deal with that.
And you're like I don't wanna
deal with it, it's annoying.
But [LAUGH] it's just the truth.
So having to deal with these things,
just, this is just different API for
dealing with it than
a bunch of try catches.
It's just flipping around, and
shuffling these, and crunching them down,
and combining them in different ways.
Does anybody have any question?
I didn't really go too far into this.
But we have an either of a list, and
we're gonna get another either out.
Or sorry, not chain, we like map,
and it'd be either list, map,
list, either mixtures.
So that situation ends up happening,
and it be good to know.
Another situation that
ends up happening is we
find this natural transformer show.
Haha, this is gonna be fun.
Okay [LAUGH] yeah, this is the good stuff.
All right, buckle up.
So what we got here in
a nutshell is a database.
That when you give it an id,
I guess if the id is greater than 2,
we're gonna actually go find it and
make this fake user.
That's friend id is the id + 1.
Otherwise, we're gonna say not found.
So this is our fake database with
a fake find and a fake user.
Awesome, and then we have this send.
So I guess this is an http response.
We're gonna send the code and
the JSON of the user.
Okay, great.
Look at this, kicking butt.
[LAUGH] so what's gonna happen?
Let's walk through this.
We're gonna find a user.
What does that return to us?
That returns us a task
of the user right away.
It has to be greater than 2,
3, there it is.
Okay, so we have a task of a user,
and we get that there.
And so what's gonna happen is we
get this either of a user, right?
This is inside the tasks,
that's actually not here.
It's not a task of user.
That's a task of an either of a user,
right?
So it's an either user.
It's not a nod to GPO [LAUGH] what is
that whole data privacy thing, GDPR.
So we're gonna fold out the either, and
we're gonna say, well,
since we're chaining, because we wanna
do another database find, the left
side has to like turn into a task,
because we have to return a task, even if
we have to return a task, no matter what.
So if it was not there,
we'd still have to return a task.
And we'd probably wanna do reject it,
or something here.
But then we get this user, and
we do the second find, okay?
And then we're gonna fork it here,
we'll get the error.
Now, this error is a database error,
not the couldn't find a user.
And also, that's if the task itself
gets rejected, not if we return to left.
Then here, we get another either user,
and we fold it out.
Send these, and
this is just not fun to work with when
you have two nested types like that.
There's a lot of different
ways to handle that.
And I'll be talking about in
the functional architecture class about
how to normalize these types in different
ways, and techniques for doing that.
But for right now, I mean, you
don't really need anything more than this
stuff, but we're gonna arm you with this.
So this will be one solution
that nails most of the cases.
So this is called
a natural transformation.
In natural transformation,
we're taking either into a task.
Why is it a natural transformation?
Why is this fancy?
Basically, what we're gonna say is
we have some type F holding an A,
and we're gonna turn it
into a type T holding an A.
And we cannot know anything about A.
People talk about encapsulation in
programming by making things general,
and not knowing anything about it,
that's the same as encapsulation.
Polymorphic functions
are encapsulated functions.
They can't call anything specific.
They don't know anything about the value.
So therefore, it's abstract,
and you're hiding information.
So it's a type transformation.
Natural transformations are a principled
type transformation from type F to type T,
both holding the value here.
And what we're doing is folding the either
out into a task that's rejected,
or a task that's resolved.
So we've taken an either, and
we've turned it into a task.
So we're gonna see how
that's working right now.
It's folding the either out.
And on the left,
it turns into a rejected task.
And on the right,
it turns into everything's good task.
There's laws.
There's laws around
natural transformations.
So if I map, and then I do a natural
transformation, that's the same
as doing the natural transformation
formation, then mapping, right?
And that's if this holds,
it is indeed a natural transformation.
If this does not hold,
you do not have a natural transformation.
Good kind of guidance is if you touch
anything on this value, then you don't
really have a natural transformation,
as far as the value the eithers holding.
You can mess around with either, or
whatever type you're dealing with, but
not what it's holding.
That's what the natural part comes from.
So let's go into this, and refactor
it using a natural transformation.
So we don't want a task
of an either of a user.
What we can do is chain.
We're gonna call either to task.
What is that doing?
Well, it takes our either of a user,
passes it into there.
And then what we get is a rejected task,
or a result task like happy task.
And if we mapped, we'd get a task
of a task, but we're chaining.
Now we just have the task of a user.
So you take this out, make it nice and
first class right there.
But now we have a user here.
We don't have to deal with any
more of these folds, right?
That's nice.
How nice is that?
And same problem down here, right?
What if instead of down here,
we do all this nonsense,
we'll just go ahead and
chain another user to task, right?
Then we'd just get a user out,
and we don't have to fold,
and we can just send this
whole user right down.
And where are we at?
There we go, cool, everybody's happy.
Let's do this though.
What happened?
Error, not found.
One thing that we lost in this,
is that folding behavior just rejected
the whole task itself, right?
It didn't reject specifically that
you didn't find the user, but
the DB connection worked, but whatever.
So by normalizing this on the task,
you're gonna fall into the task error, so
that is one thing you're losing here.
I mean, but look at that,
that's so much nicer, right?
But also, this is kind of annoying, and
there are other ways to handle that.
Traversing, and if we have an either
of a task of an either of a task,
well, I can traverse either,
but I can't traverse task.
And so there might be a way to get
this either in there, or out there.
And then we can squash them down,
and play around with these types.
Natural transformations
just make it easier.
Another solution besides
traversable would be doing
stuff like normalizing all
these into the same monad.
So we can make a new monad called
TaskEater, and that is what you would do,
use a new monad transformers for,
which we'd be talked about
in the architecture class.
So this is much more of a tool to
say I keep running into TaskEater.
Why don't I use a monad transformer to
make a new thing that's both of them?
And then finally, there's stuff like
free monads, which again, and monoids,
both are good solutions to this problem in
different ways, in different situations.
So I'm not gonna go into into that today.
This was kind of the scope for this class.
And I'll be honest,
I programmed for years without
knowing anything more than this, so.
And it was building totally
rich working fine applications.
So don't feel like you're like, I'm
missing out, I need to know transformers.
They hit a specific case and specific
time, and all the other ones do as well.
But there is more to know
about shuffling types about.